Preconfirmation API Spec Draft (#1)
ethereum-commitments/preconf-specs: specs/preconf-api.md

# Preconfirmations API Specification

## Abstract

A proposed generic API specification to support Ethereum and Layer 2 preconfirmations. The API extends the existing PBS architecture and [builder-specs](https://github.com/ethereum/builder-specs). This specification allows proposers to offer preconfirmations to users either directly or by delegating the privilege to a Gateway.

## Motivation

Ethereum’s 12 second block time may be restrictive for particular use cases and is especially inhibitive for L2s that rely on fast confirmations. One option is to reduce the block time. However, this is a very large lift and would likely require multiple hard forks. This alternative option extends the existing PBS architecture, which allows proposers or constraint delegates (Gateways) to offer transaction preconfirmations to users.

## API Scope

**In Scope**

- the delegation from proposers to gateways
- the submission of constraints
- the retrieval of constraints

Also known as the Constraints API

**Out of Scope**

> - Any interaction between thrid parties (Users, RPC Router, etc) and the Gatway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any interaction between third parties (Users, RPC Router, etc) and the Gateway.
```
